I am Richard I, the 'Lion
Heart', born in 1157 in Oxford.
I am famous for my exploits in the Third Crusade.
I am the son of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine.
I possessed considerable political and
military ability. However, like my brothers,
I fought with my family, joining them in the
great rebellion against our father in 1173.
In 1183 my brother Henry died, leaving me heir to
the throne. My father wanted to give Aquitaine to
my brother, John. I refused and, in 1189, joined
forces with Philip II of France against my father,
hounding him to a premature death in July 1189.
My chief ambition as a king was to join the Third
Crusade, prompted by Saladin's capture
of Jerusalem in 1187. To finance this,
I sold sheriffdoms and other offices and in
1190 I departed for the Holy Land. In May,
I reached Cyprus and later arrived in the Holy
Land in 1191 and Acre fell the following month.
I achieved another victory at Arsuf which
gave the crusaders possession of Joppa.
Although I came close, Jerusalem, the
crusade's main objective, eluded me. Moreover,
fierce quarrels among the French, German and
English contingents provided further troubles.
After a year's stalemate, I made a truce
with Saladin and started my journey home.
Bad weather drove me ashore near Venice and I was
imprisoned by Duke Leopold of Austria before being
handed over to the German emperor Henry VI, who
ransomed me for the huge sum of 150,000 marks.
The raising of the ransom was a remarkable
achievement. In 1194, I was released and
returned at once to England and was crowned for
a second time, fearing that the ransom payment
had compromised my independence. Yet a month
later I went to Normandy, never to return.
My last five years were spent in intermittent
warfare against Philip II. While besieging the
castle of Chalus in central France I was fatally
wounded and died on 1199. We place the love of God
and His honor above our own. That was my life
and I hope it yielded fruitful for my people.